Module number 18.
Something pretty simple, but something
that definitely needs to be talked about.
If you're gonna be getting into the YouTube automation
space, ai, YouTube space, whatever you wanna call it.
So this is gonna be module 18,
and you're gonna learn payment methods,
scheduling, tracking, et cetera.
So PayPal, this is one method to pay, whether,
whether you're paying thumbnail, artists, editors,
whatever the case is, it's the best option.
But the problem is, is that a lot
of countries don't take PayPal.
In some countries that do, there's a fee, like for example,
I know if you send to Canada
and you use your bank account, there's like a $5 fee.
For example, if you're working with someone in the us,
try if you can to just use any US service
because there's no fees.
So that's Venmo, cash app, PayPal, Zelle.
But most of the time, you know,
that's not what you're gonna run into.
So the next best option I would say is wise.
Uh, most international people have this,
whether they're in like India or Pakistan,
or if they're in like Denmark or something.
Like a lot of people have Wise and wise is good.
But for example, after I sent a certain amount over Wise,
they eventually were asking for a bunch
of information from me to verify my business and whatnot.
And I remember sending that information
and uh, they declined it
and uh, they just closed my WISE account.
So not really sure why that happened,
but I sent like, I don't even know how much I sent
before this were to happen, maybe like over 50 grand.
'cause I was also using Wise, uh, for some other stuff
that I was setting money for.
So, so yeah, wise is definitely good
and I would probably use Make A Wise account at least
because most people use this.
Now, the easiest one I've had to use, I've had some people
complain about this one and this one
like, feels weird, right?
You're gonna, you open the website there,
I think there's an app for it and it almost feels low
quality, but for whatever reason it just works.
It's called Pay Ear. I use this all the time.
Whenever somebody asks me, Hey, do you take wise?
Obviously I just said, I can't use Wise.
Well, I could probably figure out to make it new account,
but you know, the, my main business that I run,
like paying my editors
and whatnot to, I, uh, I can't use that wise account.
Whenever somebody says, Hey, can
you send me money through Wise?
Um, I always say no, but I have Pay Ear
and I, this is not failed.
This has maybe failed once. I had like 20 people ask me
for Wise, I always say Pay Ear
and they always have a pay ear account, like most
of the time, um, like I said,
maybe once or twice they didn't.
So I'd say as long as you have PayPal, pay ear
and wise, you should be fine.
I would just set these up, um, as early as possible.
Once you know that you need to have team members,
maybe your niche, you don't need to.
Um, but just having these three set up,
like just creating an account, it'll just be easier.
'cause then when, like later down the line when you need
to pay people and you need to get things out quickly,
you don't need to be like, oh shoot, I need
to make this account real quick.
Um, so just having these three already ready,
uh, definitely wouldn't hurt.
As for payment schedule, never pay
before you get a video edited,
I wouldn't even do pay a little bit and then a little bit
after, you can always tell them with a thumbnail
or anything, like, Hey, if you wanna get paid for this video
and you're, you're not comfortable getting paid
after, like, we can hop on a call
and as long as you can like screen share with me that you
Edited the first minute or
so, I'll send you the first half.
And then for example, you could send the second half after.
And then typically after that, once you get the trust
with the editor, thumbnail artist the first time,
they'll trust you after.
So as long as you can get like a watermarked, uh,
first minute from them for the first half
or for the thumbnail have like a watermark over the
thumbnail, uh, there's, there's plenty of ways.
And if they're not down,
I just wouldn't trust it, just go to the next editor.
Like I've said plenty of times, like same
with firing editors and whatnot.
There's so many editors, thumbnail artists
and whatnot, like it's just not worth the
potential risk of getting scammed.
Like just spend a little bit of extra time.
Um, and typically, like once I have a long-term editor,
like they're editing for me constantly.
I'm like, I normally just pay everyone on Friday.
So whenever I onboard a new editor thumbnail artist
for a channel, I'm paying them per video
or thumbnail until they're comfortable for me
to just start sending once a week.
Especially if there's like a fees
or using, uh, methods of payment
where there might be a fee like PayPal, uh,
or something like that where it's international
and there's a fee, uh, you know, it's easier
to send once a week so that, you know,
the fee doesn't stack up over and over and over
because I know, like for example, sending money from us
to Canada, like I said, it's like $5.
So whether you're sending a thousand dollars
or $5, the fee is $5.
So that's why it's easier to
kind of put the payments together.
Uh, and if the fee's pretty big, which sometimes it can be,
maybe you, you can even do once every
two weeks or once a month.
Uh, obviously you need to build trust
and you'd probably start off every video then once a week,
then once every two weeks and once every month like
after a long period of time.
Um, and that'd probably like to do
so that'd probably be like months down the line,
meaning you're probably already having a,
a pretty successful channel.
So like I said, that's another one of those problems.
It's not really a problem.
It's like, uh, because you know, you only have
that problem if you're already successful, right?
So for tracking payments, normally I just use Google Sheets.
You can use like QuickBooks, whatever you want.
I just put like the editor's name, the video project, like
how much I owed them, how much I uh, paid them,
and what payment method I use.
Pretty simple stuff as for taxes stuff
and all that type of stuff.
If you're, once again, it's another problem
to have once you're already successful with this.
But, you know, I didn't go to school for taxes.
I do know a lot because I've been, you know, doing this
for a while and if you ever have a question, the meeting,
maybe I can answer it,
but I just think like, at a legal standpoint,
I probably can't go and give tax advice
or legal advice, uh,
in a video when I'm not licensed to do so.
So anything with like taxes
or writing off, um, you know, these expenses, you know,
once you're actually making money from YouTube,
I would probably just hire an accountant or a CPA, um,
and talk to them about that.
The one thing I can say though is that of course, uh,
you know, paying people is a write off,
especially if you're in the US just about any country,
if you have a, a company LLC,
uh, you're able to write it off.
So if in a month you make $10,000
and you're paying a thousand, it's not like you have
to pay taxes on $10,000 and then you also paid a thousand.
It's like you take $10,000,
subtract the thousand dollars in expenses,
now you have 9,000 profit
and you just pay taxes on the 9,000.
So, you know, the way it works, a very simple way
to put a write off is whatever your total tax rate is, is
how much you're saving when you write something off.
So for example, if my tax rate is 30%, that's
how much I pay in taxes, just an example number.
Um, and I write off a thousand dollars pretty much
I'm saving 300, um, when I'm paying my taxes.
So it's as if, if I'm paying an editor a thousand dollars,
I'm actually paying them 700.
Uh, that's just an easy way to view it.
So yeah, that's one thing if you get an accountant
and you have an LLC, you can write that stuff off so
that you don't have to pay taxes on the revenue.
And then also just pay out of pocket for those expenses.
At the very least, you can, uh,
write those things off, which is pretty useful.
And it's pretty short module.
That's, uh, just about it for module 18.